Infrastructure: servers, links, routers, switches

Infrastructure service: software that manages the resources available in the infrastructure to achieve a particular goal. Services needs to be designed, implemented, and evaluated.

Degrees of freedom available to infrastructure services: set of independent decisions that a service can make as a part of its design. Placement, redirection, and routing.

Infrastructure-heavy businesses tend to have lower profit margins. Hence, it falls 



----
A large fraction of the Internet traffic is content.

One of the reasons there is a greater content traffic because there are more number of mobile devices generating and consuming content, e.g., smartphone, tablets.

There are expected to be 10B internet connected mobile devices by 2020.

A content-dominated, highly mobile Internet needs infrastructure support.

It needs network capacity to carry traffic to end users.

It needs server infrastructure to sustain and accelerate delivery of content.

We believe, it needs support for handling mobility as well, an infrastructure currently poorly developed in the Internet. 

Cost-effectiveness is a key concern for infrastructure operators, e.g., network service providers and content delivery networks.

This thesis focuses on solutions for managing the infrastructure necessary for a content-dominated, highly mobile Internet.

We explain our motivation in the context of three type of infrastructure considered in this thesis. 
------

Internet service provider network:

Rapid increase in content traffic puts burden on network infrastructure provisioned by operators.

Network operators have been generating low profits due to falling bandwidth prices.

Premium content and services generate most revenue.

Network operators are interested in moving up the value chain by offering content-based services.

Network operators use traffic engineering techniques that configure network for improving network cost, performance and fault tolerance.

Network routing decisions interact with application-level adaptation techniques used for content delivery.

We study how application adaptation for content delivery affects traffic engineering objectives.

How should content delivery be done to aid traffic engineering objectives.

----

Energy is a key component of the operational costs for servers running inside datacenters.

Energy-efficient datacenters also contribute to sustainability of the planet.

Content datacenters are used for storing and serving content. 

Rapid traffic and content growth is contibuting to an increase in the datacenter energy use.

Key difference: ensure that availability of content isn't degraded as it can reduce hit rates and degrade user-perceived performance. 

We study how content datacenters can use energy optimization while mitigating the performance impact due to reduced energy.

--------

The Internet has poor support for mobility, which affects end-users as well as application developers.

There have been a number of efforts towards handling mobility.

Naming service can help address mobilty.

Challenge: how to design a name resolution service that can stand up to orders of magnitude higher load and yet response times within milliseconds.

--------

Three degrees of freedom in a distributed infrastructure:

Content placement, request redirection and network routing are decisions that are central to the solution of these infrastructures.

USE IMAGE:

Content placement determines the locations where a content is placed.

Request redirection determines which location, among the locations where a content is available, to send a request to.

Network routing determines the path from the end user to the content it is accessing.

--------

Thesis statement: Content placement is a key to infrastructure management for a content-dominated, highly mobile Internet.

We study content placement across network points-of-presense in a large Internet service provider. Moreover, the content is static as it contribtues to a vast majority of network traffic in the internet.

We study content placement across servers inside a datacenter. Effictive placement that ensures that despite server shutdown techniques for reducing energy, content availability reduces only by a small margin.

We study placement of name records that store name-to-address mapping for mobile devices, in a geo-distributed key-value store that forms the basis of our name resolution service.

--------

Why is placement important?

(1) Placement vs. redirection: placement can create more options for the redirection scheme to choose a location that is nearby.

(2) Placement vs. routing: 

Placement is a powerful degree of freedom as it can shape network, computational and storage load in networks and distributed systems. In context of ISP, it simplifies ISP traffic engineering. Significantly reduces cost, improves performance and increases energy-efficiency of these infrastructrues. 

----

THESIS OUTLINE:

INTRODUCTION:

Context:

Problems:

Thesis statement:

Placement, routing & redirection:


Research contributions:

Traffic engineering in content-dominated networks:

- look at content
- questions

- large-scale simulations and content workloads.

- greater the placement flexibility, less the benefits of routing

- 

Global name service for high mobility:

Energy efficiency of content datacenters:



Organization:



Previous publications and collaboration:


BACKGROUND: 1

Review: Traffic engineering, content delivery & their interaction: a literature review

Traffic engineering:
- Introduce optimal traffic engineering. Say online claims to achieve close to optimal but is not known to be used inside ISPs.
- Unplanned, planned, optimal
- 





Content delivery:
	- content placement
		- demand-oblivious: caching or random
		- demand-aware: precomputed placement
		- discuss that TTLs limit cacheability:

	- request redirection
		- briefly discuss multi-source redirection, e.g., P2P, also multi-source downloads, etc.
		- gap: 


Interaction of traffic engineering with content delivery.
	- 

- relative importance of placement, redirection and routing
- value of planned placement for content delivery


Application-centric comparison of ISP traffic engineering schemes
- unplanned, planned, online (optimal)
- use unplanned, and planned traffic engineering in this chapter as well.
- discuss that we use a simple unplanned placement that places content randomly.




Why Network CDNs don't need joint optimization?


- use demand-aware, demand-oblivious
