A vast majority of the traffic on the Internet is primarily generated by end-users accessing content. Further, these end-users show a high network mobility, or in other words, change  network addresses frequently. 

Users are accessing increasing amounts of digital content over the Internet. Further, Internet-connected hosts that show a high network mobility, or frequent changing of network addresses, are increasingly common. 

Our work in this thesis is motivated by following two prominent trends in the context of the Internet. First, users are accessing increasing amounts of digital content over the Internet. It is estimated that a vast majority of network traffic on the Internet is content, with videos alone expected to account for 80\% of all traffic by 2018. Second, Internet-connected hosts that show a high network mobility, or frequent changing of network addresses, are increasingly common. By 2020, the number of Internet connected mobile end hosts is expected to grow to nearly 10 billion.

In particular, we focus on services that manage the infrastructure to support a content-dominated, high mobility Internet. Infrastructure services are usually low profit businesses owing to high capital and operational costs. As a result, there is a relentless push to generate additional profits and revenue. Accordingly, there is a need for cost-effective infrastructure service design. We give the following examples relevant to this thesis to illustrate this point. 

Nowhere is this more true than in the case of Internet service providers. As ISPs do the plumbing work of providing pipes across the Internet, only for premium content and applications to generate most of the profits. Google generating revenue via YouTube ads while ISPs provisioing massive amounts of capacity and yet generating lower profits is a common gripe for Internet service profits. No wonder, ISPs have a keen interest in moving up the value chain by designing their network infrastucture to offer content based services. The fact that most of Internet traffic is generated by users accessing content, and therefore there are profit opportunities to be had further serves this argument. Nonetheless, the net infrastructure needs to be managed in a cost effective manner, 

Another important source of costs for today's large Internet infrastructures, particularly datacenters, is the energy costs. Consider content datacneters for example. These are datacenters used primarily for storing and serving content to end users. This is an important class of datacenters given that content and its delivery is a primary activity on the Internet. These are deployed by CDNs, NCDNs and others as well. As such reducing energy costs serves to increase profits for infrastructure owner, in this case, the CDN or the NCDN, which can help them stay competitive. Further, such reductions contribute to making the Internet green as well. 

As a third example, consider a name resolution service for mapping name to network addresses for all devices in the Internet. It has been argued by many that such a global naming service can help 

-------------

A large fraction of the Internet traffic is content.

Rapid increase in content traffic puts burden on network infrastructure provisioned by operators.

Network operators have been generating low profits due to falling bandwidth prices.

Premium content and services generate most revenue.

Delivering content requires massive network and server infrastructure.

Energy is a key component of the operational costs for servers running inside datacenters.

Network operators are interested in moving up the value chain by offering content-based services.

Internet has poor support for mobility, which affects end-users as well as application developers.

There have been a number of efforts towards handling mobility.

One of the reasons there is a greater content traffic because there are more number of mobile devices generating and consuming content, e.g., smartphone, tablets.

There are expected to be 10B internet connected devices by 2020.

Cost-effectiveness is a key concern for infrastructure operators, e.g., network service providers and content delivery networks.

A content-dominated, highly mobile Internet needs infrastructure support.

It needs network capacity to carry traffic to end users.

It needs server infrastructure to sustain and accelerate delivery of content.

We believe, it needs support for handling mobility as well, an infrastructure currently poorly supported by the Internet.

This thesis focuses on solutions for managing the infrastructure necessary for a content-dominated, highly mobile Internet.

Network operators use traffic engineering techniques that configure network for improving network cost, performance and fault tolerance.

Network routing decisions interact with application-level adaptation techniques used for content delivery.

We study how application adaptation for content delivery affects traffic engineering objectives.

How should content delivery be done to aid traffic engineering objectives.

We study how content datacenters can use energy optimization while mitigating the performance impact due to reduced energy.

Thesis statement: Content placement is a key to infrastructure management for a content-dominated, highly mobile Internet.

Placement is a powerful factor as it can shape network, computational and storage load in networks and distributed systems.


We study content placement across network points-of-presense in a large Internet service provider. Moreover, the content is static as it contribtues to a vast majority of network traffic in the internet.


We study content placement across servers inside a datacenter. Effictive placement that ensures that despite server shutdown techniques for reducing energy, content availability reduces only by a small margin.

We study placement of name records that store name-to-address mapping for mobile devices, in a geo-distributed key-value store that forms the basis of our name resolution service.


Content placement, request redirection and network routing are decisions that are central to the solution of these infrastructures. 

USE IMAGE:

Content placement determines the locations where a content is placed. 

Request redirection determines which location, among the locations where a content is available, to send a request to.

Network routing determines the path from the end user to the content it is accessing.

Why is placement important?

(1) Placement vs. redirection: placement can create more options for the redirection scheme to choose a location that is nearby.

(2) Placement vs. routing: 

In context of ISP, it simplifies ISP traffic engineering. 

Significantly reduces cost, improves performance and increases energy-efficiency of these infrastructrues. 


----
THESIS OUTLINE:

INTRODUCTION:

Context:

Problems:

Thesis statement:

Placement, routing & redirection:


Research contributions:

Traffic engineering in content-dominated networks:

- look at content
- questions

- large-scale simulations and content workloads.

- greater the placement flexibility, less the benefits of routing

- 

Global name service for high mobility:

Energy efficiency of content datacenters:



Organization:



Previous publications and collaboration:


BACKGROUND: 1

Review: Traffic engineering, content delivery & their interaction: a literature review

Traffic engineering:
- Introduce optimal traffic engineering. Say online claims to achieve close to optimal but is not known to be used inside ISPs.
- Unplanned, planned, optimal
- 





Content delivery:
	- content placement
		- demand-oblivious: caching or random
		- demand-aware: precomputed placement
		- discuss that TTLs limit cacheability:

	- request redirection
		- briefly discuss multi-source redirection, e.g., P2P, also multi-source downloads, etc.
		- gap: 


Interaction of traffic engineering with content delivery.
	- 

- relative importance of placement, redirection and routing
- value of planned placement for content delivery


Application-centric comparison of ISP traffic engineering schemes
- unplanned, planned, online (optimal)
- use unplanned, and planned traffic engineering in this chapter as well.
- discuss that we use a simple unplanned placement that places content randomly.




Why Network CDNs don't need joint optimization?


- use demand-aware, demand-oblivious
